---
title: Self Reflection
published_at: 2024-05-22
snippet: Viewing my progress this semester
disable_html_sanitization: true
allow_math: true
---

Assignment 1: VIdeo Edits
<strong>How did you approach the relationship between the sonic and visual components of
your edit?</strong>

The way I visualised this was that I wanted the video to be in pace with the mudic. With every long sound being represented with a fade to black that would transition to the next scene and every change in chords being a cut to a change within the scene. So I ended up choosing the song "memorie" since it was mostly build up with chords and the song fitting the idea of the video being about these memories of me growing up.

<strong>How did you decide on the footage that you used to shape your project?</strong>

I had a lot of stuggles with finding footages at first since I was to focus on narrowing down which items I wanted to shoot. However I deviated from it as I realised that most of the items that I footage was just sitting around inside my house. And so I took a bunch of groups ot different items with different composition. 

<strong>What did you learn about the power of sound to shape emotional experience, and how
did you apply this knowledge to your project?</strong>

At the beginning, I knew that the music choice was a prime objective that was needed to enhance the audience's experience. It enables audience to hear the audio that would immerse my audince into the video. 
With sound, it create a sense of definition to an items or actions. So I mostly apllied this rule within the first 10 seconds of my video. This created more life to my video that allowed the audince to get a better grasp of the scene. 

<strong>How does editing relate to the concepts of pacing and rhythm, and how did you use
these concepts to shape your use of time in the project?</strong>

The amount of cuts, transition and space between each one will heavely impact the speed and flow of video's pacing. One thing that help create this flow is to incorporate music. Which I took advanatge of in order to create this slow and relaxing pace to my video.  

<strong>Which parts of your personality, interests, past, and potential future did you choose to
depict in your portrait?</strong>

At first, I wanted to showcase some of my hobbies like playing the drum or piano. But then a thought came to mind telling me that I should do a quick cap of my past. With different shots containing stuff I'd done in the past like animating or reading children's book. 

<strong>What were the primary aesthetic choices that you made to express those ideas in your
work?</strong>

My choice of style for this video was to express the idea of memorie. This would contain a lot of long fades to black creating that memorie aesthetic.  

Assignment 2: Icons 
<strong>How would you summarise your idea behind the suite of icons, and why did you choose
the theme that you did?</strong>

Originally I was going to do a website that act as a relaxation tool for the users to reduce their stress. However when the boundaries of the concept was mention. I quickly thought of the idea to create icons for a UI system of a VR game. Speciffically a game where users are able to create their ideal. With this in mind, I chosed the theme of calm.    

<strong>Did you iterate through a series of approaches before settling on one? What changed
across those iterations, and why did you choose the one that you ended up with?</strong>

When the concept of thumnail sketches was introduced, I was struggle to decide which sketch would best suit for my icon design. So I had to tell myself to pick the simplest design to work on as it may have the most impact than the other sketches. Originally I was going to pick the design that may have the best transition between one frame to another.

<strong>How did you translate your thumbnail sketches into the final flat designs in Illustrator?
Was anything lost in that translation, or gained?</strong>

For the majority of the desgin, I recreated the desgin of the sketches to appear as they were. That wasn't much detail lost in between translating my thumbnail sketches. However when translating it, I was able to see how I could animate the desgin from one frame to the next frame.  

<strong>How did you use colour to create a sense of unity and visual interest in the icons? Why
did you choose the palette that you did?</strong>

During the design phase, I wanted the colours to represent the theme of calm. With that, I thought the most common color to represent this idea was blue. However, I didn't think I wanted just blue to be the only colour. So I tested a analog pallets with blue as the main core. Which gave it desgin a mellow athestic. In the end, I decided to keep it a monolog pallet as I thought that keeping the icons to appear as neon light visual would create this calm athestic. 

<strong>How did the elements and principles of sound that you used in your audio design
correspond to the elements and principles of design that you used in your visual design?</strong>

When I thought of how the audio could represent calm. I thought of the idea that the sounds would be mellow. However the idea of materialising the icon came to mind and that gave me the idea to represent the sound to it's icon.  

<strong>How did you translate the prompt that you chose from an abstract idea to a set of
concrete visual designs?</strong>

When I looked at the list of theme, I immediatly decided on the theme of calm since I asoociate with this idea the most. With that, I transalte the idea into set of design that aimed to takes the users away from the harsh reality of stress and transport them into a relaxation and enjoyable world. So that is when I had the idea of creating a UI system VR game simulating a world building game. 

Assignment 3
<strong>How important was a working prototype to your design process? What did it offer that
process?</strong>

The prototype allowed me to have users playtest the game and see where there may problems within my game. With that, I was able to quickly fix the problem without having to trace back on to it myself.  

<strong>How did your experience of designing and producing a three-dimensional environment
differ from your experience of designing and producing a project in two-dimensional
media?</strong>

I felt like it harder to produce a 3d environment as there was more layer of desgin thinking that simply creating a bunch of icons. Plus with the introduction to unity featuring a way to transport users to play test the game made it harder to decide how I wanted the world to appear. However it felt much more fun creating the asset with a software I was used to and importing them into game felt more rewarding. 

<strong>What was the role of the virtual camera in your project, and how was it similar to and
different from the role of the camera in Assignment 1?</strong>

The virtual camra offer users to freely experience the world to how they want to view it. The camera for the video was only able to offer the viewer what the creator wanted them to see. These two roles offeres both different experience and feelings from each others.  

<strong>How did you use sound in your project, and how was this similar to and different from your
use of sound in Assignments 1 and 2?</strong>

The use of sound within assignment three felt much closer to assignment 1 than assignment 2. This was due to the use of music that created the experience rather than the use of sound. Plus assigment 1 and3 had a similar concept of recreating the pass. 

<strong>How did you unify the different elements of your virtual environment under a certain theme
or concept? How did your theme or concept evolve over the project’s development?</strong>

I attempted the tranlate the concept of viewing my past with music by creating these floors each representing a period of me listing to s specific genre for a certain time. As well as mechanic of not being able to go back to the lower floors which represent the idea of me moving away from that genre to annother. 

<strong>What did you discover through the process of play testing that you wouldn’t have
discovered otherwise?</strong>

During the playtesting, I discovered that post processing bloom effect that I mucked around for the neon floor had also affect bother any material that had edmission and the the light object which I had to remove. The music coming from the audio object was not consistent from walking along the stair. Finally there was part of the stair that blocked players from progreesing.  

<strong>Webpage Consideration</strong></b>
<strong>What kind of key words do you want the user to associate with the aesthetics of your webpage?</strong>
While looking back at my projects, I found that a calm feeling can be found within all three of my assignments. So I wanted to desgin my webpage to invoke this calm feeling. Secondly, I found that there is a common concept within the video and 3d assignment, memories. And so I want my audinece to feel nostalga to find different references within my webpage. 

<strong>Who is the target audience?</strong>
Mostly people who had look into my project since the webpage design is about recalling my past progression. 

<strong>What features will your audience want to see in your final webpage design?</strong>
The frame of each artist statment will contain some sort of element that can be found within each of my assignments. Like a car icon within the video, or a city building within the 3d environment.  

<strong>Artist Statement</strong>

<strong>Video Assignment</strong>
Title: Running Roadless </b>
Medium: Self Portrait Video</b> 

The concept around this video was to recreate a short, memorial timeline of my past leading to my current present. Viewers would experience the feeling of calm and nostalga as they slowly understand more of who I am and how I got to this stage in life. Within the video, I chose my style to revolve around this memories asthetic with the use of video transition such a fade to black and white. 
Accompanying this video is a heartwarming song that would elevate the memorieral and calm feeling. A little extra touch I made to this video is the beginning of which I present myself as a storyteller. In which this is inspire by some animation I saw on the internet.   

<strong>Icon Assignment</strong></b> 
Concept: A UI to build own peacfeul world in VR</b> 
Theme: Calm </b> 
Medium: Illustrator, Visual Code </b> 

The concept around these icons was to create a UI system for a VR game. Players would interact with the icons to select different tools to generate a personailised world that acts an escape realm from the stress world of reality. The idea was heavenly influcened by VR designers publishing their products to public net. Specificly being able to create real or magical world. These set of icons should represent a unqiue set of tools that emobdies a calm athestic in which players can create their own unquie world in which can be shared among others on the internet.  


<strong>3D Assignment</strong></b> 
Title: Music Taste </b> 
Medium: 3D Environment (Unity)</b> 

As players journey through my 3d environment, players would be able to navigate and explore the different floors. Each having it's own set of objects and audio that is specific to that it's floor. 

Players would travel between each  
